 Chapter 1

1.In the beginning God made the heaven and the earth.

2.But the earth was invisible and without form, and darkness was upon the deep, and the Spirit of God was borne over the water.

3.And God said, ‘Let there be light’, and there was light.

4.And God saw the light, that it was good; and God divided between the light and the darkness.

5.And God called the light ‘Day’, and the darkness He called ‘Night’. And there was evening, and there was morning, one day.

6.And God said, ‘Let there be a firmament in the midst of the water, and let it be a division between the water and the water’. And it was so.

7.And God made the firmament, and God divided between the water which was under the firmament and the water which was above the firmament.

8.And God called the firmament Heaven. And God saw that it was good. And there was evening, and there was morning, a second day.

9.And God said, ‘Let the water that is under the heaven be gathered together into one gathering, and let the dry land appear’. And it was so. And the water that was under the heaven was gathered together into its gatherings, and the dry land appeared.

10.And God called the dry land ‘Earth’, and the systems of the waters called He ‘Seas’; and God saw that it was good.

11.And God said, ‘Let the earth bring forth herb of grass, sowing seed according to its kind and according to its likeness, and the fruit tree bearing fruit, whose fruit is in itself according to its kind upon the earth’. And it was so.

12.And the earth brought forth herb of grass, sowing seed according to its kind and according to its likeness, and the fruit tree, bearing fruit, whose seed is in itself according to its kind upon the earth.

13.And God saw that it was good. And there was evening, and there was morning, a third day.

14.And God said, ‘Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven for light upon the earth to divide between the day and the night, and let them be for signs and for seasons, and for days and for years.

15.And let them be for light in the firmament of heaven to give light upon the earth.’ And it was so.

16.And God made the two great lights; the great light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night and the stars.

17.And God set them in the firmament of heaven to give light upon the earth,

18.and to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide between the light and the darkness. And God saw that it was good.

19.And there was evening, and there was morning, a fourth day.

20.And God said, Let the waters bring forth creeping things that have life, and fowl that fly above the earth in the firmament of heaven; and it was so.

21.And God made the great sea monsters, and every living creature that creepeth, which the waters brought forth according to their kind, and every winged fowl according to its kind; and God saw that they were good.

22.And God blessed them, saying, Increase, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply upon the earth.

23.And there was evening, and there was morning, a fifth day.

24.And God said, ‘Let the earth bring forth the soul of the living creature according to its kind, four-footed beasts, and creeping things, and wild beasts of the earth according to their kind’. And it was so.

25.And God made the wild beasts of the earth according to their kind, and the cattle according to their kind, and all the creeping things of the earth according to their kind; and God saw that they were good.

26.And God said, ‘Let Us make man according to Our image and according to Our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the heaven, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over all the creeping things that creep upon the earth’.

27.And God made man, according to the image of God made He him; male and female made He them.

28.And God blessed them, saying, ‘Increase, and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of heaven, and all the cattle, and all the earth, and all the things that creep upon the earth’.

29.And God said, ‘Behold, I have given you every seed-bearing herb sowing seed, which is upon all the earth, and every tree that hath in itself the fruit of seed that is sown; to you it shall be for meat,

30.and to all the wild beasts of the earth, and to all the fowl of the heaven, and to every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth, which hath in itself the breath of life, even all green herb for meat’. And it was so.

31.And God saw all the things that He had made, and behold, they were very good. And there was evening, and there was morning, a sixth day.